so you've hoisted some of this orange
goo out of the water that is blue whale
droppings very fierce bitter kind of
salty smell to it very very much seafood
bright bright orange and that is the
indigestion will remains of krill of the
crustaceans that blue whales feed on ah
Oh ash aww oh God rancid don't think
I've ever been quite so excited about
poo in my entire life
a whale must have surfaced here just
minutes before but our search is getting
harder the waves are increasing and
we're lurching about all over the place
even a surfacing blue whale could be
hidden by the swell and filming is next
to impossible spirit board for joining
the cameraman this would have to be
about as hard as wildlife filmmaking
gets bouncing up and down on a boat
being hung onto in a bear hug by Mervyn
but then a spout and for a split second
we think we see a whale where its motors
have slowed because we took their rights
in front of us there Johnny Johnny over
to the left right alongside the boat and
it's going to time under US v under the
boat no more the 20 meters
oh my word why
yes yes see I see it
the only comparison I can make is like a
nuclear submarine just breaking the
surface it's almost silent and you just
see the water dripping off its flanks
are the spray just came back and hit us
all in the face is that close there's a
reason this is seen as the best place on
earth to see blue whales it's to animals
side by side and for the first time you
can really get a sense of the scale of
the animal it is genuinely bigger and
longer than our boat
blue whales are the largest of the Bali
in whales valine whales don't have any
teeth instead hanging from their upper
jaw they have plates of a substance
called Bali which is made of keratin
same thing that our fingernails are made
of
you